SectionsSEARCH
Skip to contentSkip to site index
The Learning Network
Log In
Log In
Today’s Paper
The Learning Network|What Do You Gain From Pursuing Something You Do Really, Really Badly?
Subscribe
Log In
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
Supported by
Continue reading the main story
Student Opinion
What Do You Gain From Pursuing Something You Do Really, Really Badly?
The truth is that most surfers don’t come close to what we see in highlight videos. But pretty’s not the point.Credit... Brian Caissie/Getty Images
By Caroline Crosson Gilpin
May 2, 2017
Think about the times you have seen people make complete fools of themselves attempting to do something they are clearly not good at. What did you think, and how did you react?
What motivates others to continually engage in activities, performing arts, sports or academics that they aren’t naturally adept at, and that they may never be good at, no matter how much time they devote to it?
In “(It’s Great to) Suck at Something,” Karen Rinaldi writes:
Over the past 15 years, surfing has become a kind of obsession for me. I surf eight months a year. I travel to surf destinations for family vacations and seek (forgiving) waves in the Atlantic and the Pacific Oceans. I have spent thousands of dollars on boards of all sizes and shapes.
And yet — I suck at it. In the sport of (Hawaiian) kings, I’m a jester. In surfing parlance, a “kook.” I fall and flail. I get hit on the head by my own board. I run out of breath when held down by a four-foot wave. I wimp out when the waves get overhead and I paddle back to shore. When I do catch a wave, I’m rarely graceful. On those rare occasions when I manage a decent drop, turn and trim, I usually blow it by celebrating with a fist pump or a hoot.
Once, I actually cried tears of joy over what any observer would have thought a so-so performance on a so-so wave. Yes, I was moved to tears by mediocrity.
So why continue? Why pursue something I’ll never be good at?
She continues:
The notion of sucking at something flies in the face of the overhyped notion of perfectionism. The lie of perfectionism goes something like this: “If I fail, it’s only because I seek perfection.” Or “I can never finish anything because I’m a perfectionist.” Since the perfectionist will settle for nothing less, she is left with nothing.
Self-knowledge here is key. No one ever tells you how much you suck at something. Unless you have a mean boss, an abusive parent or a malicious friend, most people are happy to help us maintain the delusion that our efforts are not in vain. No, we cannot count on people around us to let us know how much we suck. It is far more acceptable to compliment than to criticize. So the onus is on us as individuals to admit to ourselves how much we suck at something. And then do it anyway.
By taking off the pressure of having to excel at or master an activity, we allow ourselves to live in the moment. You might think this sounds simple enough, but living in the present is also something most of us suck at.
Students: Read the entire article, then tell us:
— Do you agree that there are benefits to spending time doing things you are not good at, and never will be good at? Why or why not?
— What activities or pursuits do you engage in, despite not achieving perfection, or even proficiency?
— What do people gain from spending time pursuing activities, performing arts, sports or academic subjects they do not do well, and why?
Students 13 and older are invited to comment. All comments are moderated by the Learning Network staff, but please keep in mind that once your comment is accepted, it will be made public.
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
Site Index
Go to Home Page »
news	home page
world
U.S.
politics
Election 2020
New York
business
tech
science
climate
sports
obituaries
the upshot
Español
中文网
today's paper
corrections
opinion	today's opinion
op-ed columnists
editorials
op-ed Contributors
letters
sunday review
video: opinion
arts	today's arts
art & design
books
dance
movies
music
Pop Culture
television
theater
watching
video: arts
living	automobiles
Cooking
crossword
education
food
health
jobs
magazine
parenting
real estate
style
t magazine
travel
love
listings & more	Reader Center
Wirecutter
Live Events
The Learning Network
tools & services
N.Y.C. events guide
multimedia
photography
video
Newsletters
NYT store
times journeys
manage my account